Now, after the ensuing avalanche of sequels, prequels and side stories, the saga of Kratos star-crossed life has become as tangled and complex as the mythic tales that inspired the world hes inhabited. And though the upcoming PlayStation 4 follow-up does its best to leave the lyres and winged chariots of fantasy ancient Greece in the rearview mirror, heres a quick primer on all the major revelations from the previous games, and how they shaped the angry antihero at the helm. As revealed in 2007s God of War 2 and the 2010 PlayStation Portable entry God of War: Ghost of Sparta, Kratos was born in the Greek city-state of Sparta, the demigod spawn of one of Zeus many dalliances with mortal women. He was bred for battle in that infamously bellicose society alongside his brother, Deimos, knowing nothing of his Olympian heritage. Early in his adolescence, Zeus learned of a prophecy that stated that one of his children would eventually slay him — just as he himself had murdered his father, the Titan Cronos, to usher in the era of the gods. Zeus sent two of his children, Athena and Ares, to find the fated offspring and kill them. Eventually, the two siblings determined that Deimos was the likely candidate due to strange markings on his body, and they stole him away from Kratos and delivered him to Thanatos, the god of death, giving Kratos a distinctive scar over his eye when he tried to stop them.As he grew older, Kratos married and fathered a child, as recounted in the backstory to the original God of War. His appetite for glory and merciless tactics in battle won him acclaim from his superiors and fear from his legions of foes, and over time he gathered his own army under the banner of Sparta. However, even great armies lose battles, and his eventually found itself overpowered by the Barbarians from the nebulous East. With defeat in sight, Kratos swore fealty to Ares, the same god of war that had taken his brother, in order to turn the tide of the battle. Impressed by his half brothers ruthlessness, Ares allowed him into his service, and bestowed upon Kratos the Blades of Chaos, a set of swords forged in the underworld that became literally chained to his forearms as a reminder of his oath. With this newfound power, Kratos defeated the entire opposing force by himself, reveling in the bloodshed.As the god of wars loyal subject, Kratos roamed around the countryside, killing soldiers and innocents indiscriminately. Still, his wife and child tied him to the realm of everyday people, and Ares saw fit to hatch a plan to sever that thread, teleporting the Spartans family into a nearby temple during one of his rampages through a village. Too drunk on his rage to recognize his own loved ones, Kratos entered the temple and slaughtered everyone in sight. Once he realized his terrible mistake, Kratos broke his oath to Ares and swore revenge. The village oracle, who tried to warn him, cursed him to bear the ashes of the family that he murdered on his skin forevery